# SwiftyInterpreter
Interpreter for Swift-like language *Swifty*.

## Overview of the repository
I decied to write two versions of this language to ilustrate different types of variables binding - dynamic and static.
Core features of the language are identical. Repository is divided into two branches:

1. Dynamic binding
2. Static binding

Both containing:

1. Grammar file *Swifty.cf* with language grammar for BNF Converter (bnfc)
2. Interpreter implementation files generated with bnfc, *EvalSwifty.hs* with evaluation functions, *TypeChecker.hs* with type checker code.
3. Docs directory:
  1. Language description, grammar etc in *Swifty.pdf* (generated by bnfc)
  2. *Swifty.tex* generated with bnfc
4. Examples directory:
  1. *Good* directory with examples of working code in *Swifty*
  2. *Bad* directory with examples of typical error (syntax, runtime, type)
  
## Language description
*Swifty* is interpreted, strongly typed programming language. Types of the variables are inferred by interpreter.
Variables are dynamically/statically binded. Syntax of the language is derived from Apple's programming language *Swifty*.

### Data types
1. Basic
  1. Integers (int)
  2. Boolean (bool)
2. Complex
  1. Arrays
  2. Structures
  3. Tuples
  
### Expressions
1. Boolean expressions: ||, &&, ==, !=
2. Arithmetic expressions: +,-,*,/ (integer division)
3. Unary expressions: -, !

### Declarations
1. Block
2. Functions and procedures, including higher-order functions
3. Variables, arrays, structs

### Statements
1. Assignment
2. if, if-else
3. while loop, foreach
4. return

## Implementation
Code of the interpreter is written in Haskell. Parser and lexer were generated by BNF Converter.
Evaluation functions are written in Continuation Passing Style, type checker is written with use of Monad State.

## Changelog
1. 06.2016 added higher-order functions to branch static_binding
